+++
title = "Podman"
author = ["Michalis Pardalos"]
tags = ["publish"]
draft = false
+++

Is a container runtime that allows for running containers without root access.


## Creating systemd units for podman containers {#creating-systemd-units-for-podman-containers}

Use `podman generate systemd` to generate systemd unit files for containers. In all below commands, the unit file is just sent to stdout.

-   Unit file that starts/stops a container: `podman start` on unit start, and `podman stop` on unit stop.
    ```sh
    podman generate systemd --name <container>
    ```
-   Unit file that creates/removes a container: `podman run` on unit start, and `podman stop; podman rm` on unit stop.
    ```sh
    podman generate systemd --new --name <container>
    ```


## Using docker-compose files {#using-docker-compose-files}

Normal docker-compose actually works with podman but requires some setup. Instead, there is:
[GitHub - containers/podman-compose: a script to run docker-compose.yml using podman](https://github.com/containers/podman-compose)


## Volumes under SELinux {#volumes-under-selinux}

SELinux is (as usual) pretty annoying. It won't let you access any volume, unless it is mounted with the `:z` volume option. Like this:

```sh
podman run ... -v host_name:container_name:z
```

This will allow any container to access the directory. You can also use the `:Z` (capital Z) volume option to allow **only** this container to access it.


### References {#references}

-   [Containers, volumes and file permissions – Ice and Fire – by J‑C Berthon](https://www.berthon.eu/2018/containers-volumes-and-file-permissions/)
-   [Podman volumes and SELinux | Just another Linux geek](https://blog.christophersmart.com/2021/01/31/podman-volumes-and-selinux/)
