+++
title = "Freya"
author = ["Michalis Pardalos"]
tags = ["publish"]
draft = false
+++

This is my home {{< optionalref "Raspberry Pi" "20211031224958-raspberry_pi.md" >}} based server


## System description {#system-description}

OS
: Raspberry Pi OS

Container runtime
: Docker
    Podman is unfortunately not (easily) available for Raspberry Pi OS

Unless otherwise specified, all applications are running as docker containers.


## Running services {#running-services}

-   Local hostname using {{< optionalref "mDNS" "20220928095551-mdns.md" >}}
-   {{< optionalref "Samba share" "20221005172717-samba.md" >}} at `\\freya.local\data\`
-   DLNA server using miniDLNA
-   qBittorrent, using the [hotio.dev container](https://hotio.dev/containers/qbittorrent/)
    Torrent traffic is routed through Mullvad VPN over {{< optionalref "wireguard" "20211104205032-wireguard.md" >}}
-   Radarr, using the [hotio.dev container](https://hotio.dev/containers/radarr/)
-   Sonarr, using the [hotio.dev container](https://hotio.dev/containers/sonarr/)
-   {{< optionalref "nginx" "20221002174904-nginx.md" >}} as a reverse proxy


## Deployment &amp; configuration {#deployment-and-configuration}

All configuration is handled through Ansible. The goal is to have a playbook that can take a just-flashed Raspbian install to fully functional. This is almost complete, the config is in <~/Documents/freya>. Here are the parts that are not yet Ansible-ised.

-   qbittorrent needs a Wireguard configuration file, which is expected to be in `/var/services/config/qbittorrent/wireguard/mullvad-london.conf`
-   The external volume, mounted at `/var/services/`, needs to be accessible to all different services. They are all running as users in the `data` group. So the following are required for this location:
    1.  All files and folders owned by the `data` group
    2.  `g+rw` permissions for all files
    3.  `g+rwxs` permissions for all directories
        -   `+x` to allow cd-ing into them
        -   `+s` (setgid) so that new files are also owned by the group


## Issues {#issues}


### Undervoltage {#undervoltage}

A new power supply is coming soon


### MiniDLNA not picking up new files {#minidlna-not-picking-up-new-files}

-   It should be picking up new files based on `inotify` configured by setting `inotify =yes` in the config. I have set it but it is not doing that.
-   Arch wiki suggests that the user `minidlna` is running as (`minidlna` by default) needs to have write access to the DB directory, which I have found to be `/var/lib/minidlna`. It does.
-   It could be that `inotify` is not working for some reason. Might have to do with default settings for the pi, or even with the undervoltage. **Need to check**


### hostname-publish not starting on boot {#hostname-publish-not-starting-on-boot}

```text
Oct 05 22:31:56 freya systemd[1]: Started Avahi/mDNS name publisher.
Oct 05 22:31:57 freya hostname-publish.sh[561]: Bad number of arguments
Oct 05 22:31:57 freya systemd[1]: hostname-publish.service: Succeeded.
Oct 05 22:31:57 freya hostname-publish.sh[562]: Bad number of arguments
Oct 05 22:31:57 freya hostname-publish.sh[560]: Bad number of arguments
```

Guessing it is because this unit is starting before the network interface is up.
See: [NetworkManager - NetworkManager-wait-online - ArchWiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/NetworkManager#NetworkManager-wait-online)


### Docker not starting on boot sometimes {#docker-not-starting-on-boot-sometimes}

```text
Oct 05 22:41:26 freya systemd[1]: Starting Docker Application Container Engine...
Oct 05 22:41:28 freya systemd[1]: docker.service: Main process exited, code=dumped, status=11/SEGV
Oct 05 22:41:28 freya systemd[1]: docker.service: Failed with result 'core-dump'.
Oct 05 22:41:28 freya systemd[1]: Failed to start Docker Application Container Engine.
Oct 05 22:41:29 freya systemd[1]: docker.service: Scheduled restart job, restart counter is at 1.
```

This might be caused by the undervoltage error


## Plans {#plans}


### Services {#services}

-   Custom dashboard with info from the various services


### Hardware {#hardware}

-   [Seagate BarraCuda 2TB Internal Hard Drive HDD – 3.5 Inch](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Seagate-BarraCuda-Internal-Drive-Cache/dp/B07H2RR55Q/ref=sr_1_3?keywords=2TB+hard+drive&qid=1636321536&sr=8-3)
-   [INUX3D Design Studio online Shop](https://shop.inux3d.com/en/)
    Cases with space for hard drives
