---
title: Starting a blog
date: 2018-08-21
---

Let's put something up as a first entry shall we?

I have been meaning to start this for a while now but I was always hesitant. Do
I have anything to say? Even if I do have something, is it really that
important? Will anyone really care? Questions I'm sure most other writers have
also struggled with. In the end my desire to just get my thoughts written down
somewhere just overcame my doubts. And so here we are.

Little bit about myself: My name is Mike (lie: It's actually Μιχάλης, pronounced
Michalis, but let's not) I'm a second year student of Imperial College London,
studying Electronic and Information Engineering, think Electrical Engineering
but with a twist of Computer Science. I've been programming for basically as
long as I remember and I don't see any signs of getting tired anytime soon. At
the moment I'm mostly interested in programming language theory and
implementation and so I'm currently working on a programming language called
[Kima](https://gitlab.com/michalis_pardalos/Kima) as an experiment (something
which I am really itching to write about) while also trying to come into contact
with as many languages as I can. When I'm not coding I usually want to be out on
the street, taking photos, even though there isn't always enough motivation to
actually get me to do that.

I'm not exactly sure what the content of this blog will be. I'm just writing
about whatever I feel like at the time, which, for now, is mostly technical
articles about my current fascination with programming language development and
theory (for however little I know). That topic being just what is taking up most
space in my mind at the time of writing this post. It's possible that it changes
soon and I would also like to have a few non-technical articles every once in a
while. More specifically, My current plan is to document the development of
[Kima](https://gitlab.com/michalis_pardalos/Kima) as it goes along. I think I
have some possibly interesting ideas for this language and I want to see
people's opinions about it.

Not much more to say about me or my plans, so I just hope you enjoy reading my
ramblings from now on and that I actually keep posting here.